## ERC777

### ERC777 is an extension of ERC20 which aims to solve common problems that ERC20 users were facing, such as:
- When interacting with dapps, like Uniswap, to exchange ERC20 tokens a user creates 2 transactions: the first one to approve some amount of tokens to the dapp and the second one to the dapp itself. In ERC777 this can operation can be reduced to just 1 transaction
- ERC20 can accidently be sent to a contract that doesn't know how to handle them and the tokens may get locked in it. ERC777 solves this issue by making sure that the recipient, if it's a contract, must support ERC777
- Contracts may be spammed with "shitcoins". In ERC777 this is prevented by allowing contracts to choose which tokens they are willing to accept
- ERC20 doesn't have a `mint` and `burn` functions in the specification.

### But ERC777 introduced whole lot of new issues by addressing the problems above:

#### Reentrancy

Reducing transactions' count to 1 when using dapps is achieved by adding a post-transfer hook, which passes on the data sent in the third argument of the `send` function to address in the first argument.

`function send(address to, uint256 amount, bytes calldata data) external;`

This creates a risk of reentrancy.

Moreover, ERC777 has a pre-transfer hook to notify a sender about the transfer, it's called before decreasing the balance of the sender and doing so is against CEI-pattern.

#### Over-engineering

The ERC solves the second issue, but in order the contract to follow the ERC one must implement two interfaces: ERC777TokensSender and ERC777TokensRecipient, unlike ERC-165 which doesn't require that.

## ERC1363

ERC1363 is also an extension of ERC20 that added a new set of functions that duplicate existing ERC20 interface but with a callback called in the end of each operation. It introduces the same reentrancy risk as ERC777.
